So let's go ahead
and create a lifecycle rule for our buckets.
So let's go under management and create a lifecycle rule.
This one is going to be called demo rule, and we apply it
to all the objects in the buckets and I acknowledge it.
Okay, so we can see we have five different rule actions.
We can move current versions
of objects between storage classes,
non-current versions of objects between classes,
expired current versions of objects,
permanently delete non-current versions of objects,
and finally delete expired objects, delete markers
or incomplete multi-part upload.
So five different use cases.
Let's have a look at them one by one.
So to move current version objects between storage classes
that means that you have a version bucket, and
the current version is the version that is the most recent
the one displayed to the user.
So for example, we can transition
to standard IA after 30 days.
Then we can go into intelligent tier after 60 days.
Then we can go into
say glacier after 90 days for instant retrieval.
Then after 180 days flexible retrieval
and then maybe deep archive after 365 days.
So you can have a transition as much as you want.
Okay?
And we need to take this back to acknowledge what we do.
We can also, for example
move non-current versions so faster.
So this one, we want to move an object that is non-current
therefore an object that has been overridden
quote unquote by near one.
So we can say, okay, this one
we wanna move it into glacier flexible because we know
that after 90 days we won't need it for retrieval.
So this is perfect and we're good to go
but we could add more transitions.
And for example
we want to expire current versions of objects after,
and at the bottom you can set it up after 700 days.
And same for the non-current options.
We want to permanently delete them after 700 days as well.
Okay, so this is something we can do
and now we can have a look
at all these transitions and expiration actions.
So this is nice because it shows you a timeline
of what is going to happen to your current version
and your non-current versions of your objects.
So if we're happy with all of this, we can just go ahead
and create this role, and this role will act
in the background to do what it's supposed to be doing.
So that's it.
Now you know how to automate moving objects
in AWS free between different source classes.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.